Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Peruse podcast. This
is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. We are reaching
the end of our teaching on developing
the inner man. We have seen the reality
of the Eden man already. And we have
seen that it ought to be adorned, ought
to be strengthened, ought to be renewed.
We ought to put on and put off. We have
seen that it's like sewing seeds on our
hearts that makes a tree that brings
forth fruits. We have seen that it's
like depositing on our heart and
bringing out of those deposits. We saw
that from the Lord Jesus in Matthew
12:33 downwards. And then we took that
tree concept all the way back to Genesis
1 and saw it is how God has always
explained how man functions. Okay. So
God has always explained how man
functions using this tree, this seed,
tree and fruit concept.
All right. Now having seen that fact we
noted in Genesis 2 it was explained that
there was a tree of life tree of
knowledge of good and evil definitely
not physical trees rather showing things
that were sown on the heart of man and
that's why proverbs 3:18 will call the
tree of life wisdom and we know wisdom
is rooted in truth from proverbs 23:23
by the truth and do not sell wisdom
instruction and understanding God sw the
seed of the truth of existence on man's
heart and of course man Having free will
there was automatically you know
contrary beliefs that he was also
considering which accounts for what is
called the tree of knowledge of good and
evil and we are shown that one brings
about death. He said the day you eat of
that tree of knowledge of good and evil
you surely die. The other one was called
the tree of life it brings about life.
How do we eat of the tree of life or the
tree of death? Proverbs 18:20 he
explained that to us and he said a man
will be satisfied with the fruit of his
mouth from the produce of his lips or by
the produce of his lips he will be
filled. So it's by speaking what comes
from us from our mouth rather that we
get filled. So it's sort of like the
opposite spiritual eating is what comes
out of your mouth while physical eating
is what goes into your mouth. Then verse
21 of Proverbs 18 says death and life
are in the control of the tongue. those
who love it will eat the fruit thereof.
So having looked at that we I I I
remember I mentioned about Proverbs 3:18
you know Proverbs 3:18 says um wisdom is
a tree of life to those who take over of
take hold of her and happy are those who
retain her that means what we do
relative to the tree of life or the
other tree which again let me be clear
these two trees are still existing and
yes we all have those two trees on our
mind that is Whenever you're exposed to
things that contrary to the truth of
redemption or who you are in Christ,
these are seeds of the tree of knowledge
of good and evil sown on your heart that
you can partake of and you start to not
care about certain wrongs or evils. You
start to have wrong belief systems or
worldview. You start to have um wrong
conducts or actions or attitudes. And
now if you believe the gospel, you're
safe. So you benefit of the tree of
life. But there is still the ongoing
reality of blessed are happy are those
who retain her. You know the tree of
life is um wisdom is a tree of life to
those who take hold of her and happy are
those who retain her. So we still have
this ongoing two trees issue which is
why in M 12:33 the Lord was making that
point either make the tree good and his
fruit good or else make the tree bad and
his fruit bad. So you got to be careful
what happens on your heart. You have to
guard your heart with all diligence.
Okay. So that means the faith reality
that was being explained in those trees
are not just about it's not just about
salvation rather it's also about our
growth our walk in God's purpose for our
lives. And we saw all that text to
emphasize the role of our mouth in
developing us to fulfill God's purpose
like Joshua 1:8, Deuteronomy 6,
Deuteronomy 30, Psalm 1, etc.
Ephesians 3 also Paul was clear in
Ephesians 3:17 that the way Christ
dwells in our hearts the way we arrive
at the perfect man is by faith. So faith
is how we develop the hidden man and by
that faith we mean faith stand. That's
why we went back to Romans Romans 12:2
where Paul said be not conformed to this
world but be transformed by the renewing
of your mind. And this renewing of our
mind is us presenting ourselves as we
are in Christ. Romans 12:1, it's our
reasonable service, our logical worship.
All right? So, it's our logical worship.
When we present ourselves, we are
affirming who we are. We are unshaken
about who we are. We are taking a bold,
firm, and strong stance
on who we are in Christ. Right? And the
key word here is that he calls it our
logical worship. And the word there
worship is latria. So it's not the
ordinary word for worship. It's rather
the word latria which um shows a temple
activity, temple worship which can refer
to prayer. Remember the Lord called the
temple the house of prayer in Mark 11 or
Matthew 21 or John 2. He called the
temple the house of prayer. So he's
showing us that this act of presenting
oursel happens in the place of prayer.
It happens in the place of prayer.
And we looked at some text on that. The
last time we looked at Luke chapter 11
when the Lord taught us to pray. Part of
that prayer includes praying for our
love walk where we forgive the sins of
others. Also, it includes praying for
our walk in righteousness. And it shows
that our prayer whether it's for
ourselves, whether it's for our needs or
whether it's for the kingdom must be
persistent. Right? You remember the
parable, our prayers must be persistent.
And so he told that parable
about the um the friend who came to ask
in the middle of the night you know his
friend for something but because of his
opportunity and persistence the friend
would have to give in. And he just used
that to bring the point that it requires
persistence on our part to see the fruit
and the result of prayer. Persistence on
our part to see the fruit and result of
prayer. And there are many reasons for
that. It's not as much, you know, God
trying to withhold or hold back. No,
that's not the case. I don't want to get
into it. It's something on spiritual
warfare. We're going to look at it in
due course, but it's more about the
operational way this world works. So,
and also is about the concept of faith
being a seed as well. So, that staying
there until we see the fruit is a very
important part of our faith life. Now
there's Luke 18:1 where the Lord said he
told a parable to the end that men
always ought to pray and not to faint
and it was again to show the persistence
of faith. So this is very important. If
prayer is the major way we exercise
faith for our transformation. Prayer is
the major way we exercise faith for our
transformation. I want to add one more
fact to this which is that praying in
the spirit is one of the most potent way
we can exercise faith for our
transformation. praying in the spirit
and by praying in the spirit in this
context I will mean I do mean praying in
tongues and I know here there might be
those with questions and we'll see how
far we can go in answering them but I'm
going to make some very important points
at least try to follow through with a
open heart in Ephesians 6 and 18 Paul
says praying always with all prayer and
supplication in the spirit now of course
we could make an argument for praying in
the spirit that is not restrictedly
praying in tongues
But there's no doubt that praying in
tongues has a better case for being
praying in the spirit than any other
kind of prayer. Particularly because of
1 Corinthians chapter 14 from verse 14
to 15 where the contrast was made
between praying with the spirit and
praying with the understanding. Now we
might want to you know create a fight
over praying with the spirit is not
necessarily praying in the spirit. But
again in 1 Corinthians 14:2 when he
spoke about praying in tongues he he
especially or particularly described it
as something that happens in the spirit.
So because the phrase in the spirit can
mean you are in the spirit that means um
it's like saying you are intoxicated
with the spirit be not drunk with wine
but be filled with the spirit. You are
in the spirit you are under the
influence of the spirit. It is possible
one is praying in understanding and we
say the person is in the spirit like
revelation 1 and 10 John was in the
spirit on the last day. If someone
enters a state where the person is
inspired by the holy ghost and is
praying it should be right to say the
person is praying in the spirit just
based on biblical vocabulary.
But praying in tongues is especially or
particularly described as praying in the
spirit. And if we are told to pray our
prayers and supplication in the spirit,
it would mean that praying for our
growth or praying for our transformation
which happens in this house of prayer.
It's our logical worship which happens
in this house of prayer. Presenting
ourselves can be done in tongues and
tonesues may be an especially effective
way of doing it. Now if you have
questions on the baptism of the Holy
Ghost, I would encourage you to go to
the peruse.org oxides particularly the
question section and listen to the video
on baptism of the holy ghost. Now the
video is more designed to get people
filled with the spirit but there will
also be other teachings I believe on the
library. We would upload them very soon
on tongues that would probably help you
about understanding tongues better
because it's impossible for me to know
answer those questions here and now. Now
I want you to go to 1 Corinthians
chapter 14 and verse 2. In 1 Corinthians
14:2, Paul said, "For he who speaks in a
tongue does not speak to men, but to
God." So the idea that tongues is
primarily meant to serve the purpose of
men understanding is definitively
knocked out by this text because it says
when we speak in a tongue, we do not
speak to men but to God. For no one
understands. You can see that this is a
very definitive way of speaking. Albeit
in the spirit, he speaks mysteries. So
all of this is definitive. None of it is
specially contextual to the audience
he's talking to. It's very definitive.
He who speaks in a tongue does not speak
to men but God. No one understands how
he is in the spirit. He speaks
mysteries. So he's saying tongues is not
man word but God word.
And when you're speaking in tones in the
spirit you're speaking mysteries. He's
saying tongues is not man word but God
word. And it's a very strong emphasis
throughout this particular chapter. And
when we want to function towards man, we
should bring in the interpretation. So
he says when you are praying in tonges,
you are praying in the spirit. Now to
show us something else. If prayer is the
place of transformation, is that also
true about tongues? When we are praying
to God in the spirit, does he transform
us? And what does it transform? Let's
see 1 Corinthians 14:4. He who he who
speaks in a tongue edifies
himself but he who prophesies edifies
the church. That's that's something
important. He says when pray in tonges
we edify ourself but when we prophesy we
edify the church. Now in what sense does
he mean we edify ourself? You know when
we prophesy and we say we edify the
church in this case what we give to the
church is knowledge. So people know
right and that knowledge should inspire
faith because he says all may learn and
be encouraged. So it should mean that we
are edifying the church by enlightening
their mind. You know we are giving them
knowledge via the prophecy something
that God is calling their attention to
at the moment but also by their own
response of faith as a result of that
prophecy that teaching not to inspire
faith just as the ordinary teaching of
God's word should. The leaders of the
church are meant to perfect the saints
by giving them knowledge and bringing
them into faith, getting them to put on
who they are. So if that's what prophecy
does if we are speaking in tongues, what
does that mean? It's most likely
referring to the fact that that
edification is building us up by faith.
And now how we know this to be most
probably the case is because of 1
Corinthians chapter 8. So praying in the
spirit is one effective way of building
up ourselves spiritually. The same word
edify is used in 1 Corinthians chapter 8
and verse 10 as emboldening our
conscience. Oh my. Do you see that? 1
Corinthians 8:10. If anyone sees you who
has knowledge eaten in a temple in an
idol's temple, will not the conscience
of him who is weak be emboldened? And
that word is notice is the conscience
that becomes emboldened. Do you remember
conscience is consciousness and it
becomes edified
to eat those things of idols. Now this
negative instance but let's go back to
the positive. It means our conscience
can get edified and this is not
knowledge or conviction. This is
conscience. This is our consciousness.
Our reckoning our inner man or hidden
man can get o and it can get weak. It
can get strong. It can get emboldening.
It can get so is it true when 1
Corinthians 14 and:3 says he that speaks
and talks edifies himself. That
edification there can be like charging
up oneself becoming bold and stronger
and it can mean someone can become
weaker. It is true. It won't just be
knowledge. It will also be the response
of faith to knowledge particularly
because knowledge can be forgotten
leading one not to do it according to
James. So faith is very key in this
edification. So praying in the spirit
praying in tongues is an important way
of building ourself of developing the
haman. We are affirming maybe our love
walk, our righteousness, any reality
about who we are in Christ when we pray
in the spirit just as when we pray in
understanding. And today as we will say
in the light of what Christ has
fulfilled.
Today as we will say in the light of
what Christ has fulfilled, we are meant
to prioritize praying in the spirit or
praying in tongues as a most effective
way of prayer of edifying ourel of
transforming oursel. Thank you. Fulfill
God's purpose. See you on the next one.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.